(dramatic violin music)
The miracle doesn't end there.
What happened to the scar tissue?
That's the miracle.
There were too many individual circumstances
involved for it to be just a happenstance.
Some people might say,
"No, it's not a miracle.
"It's just a coincidence."
But I am convinced that it is an answer to prayer.
And I'm thinking, "How can this be?
"This is a joke.
"This does not happen."
Regardless of our personal beliefs
about religion or the supernatural,
we all recognize when certain things happen,
that break the rules of everyday life.
When something out of the ordinary happens,
whether you call it a miracle or a coincidence,
it can stop you in your tracks and make you take notice.
(music)
Let's continue examining these phenomenal happenings,
which we began to do in Stories of Miracles part one.
The year was 1950.
Herb Kipf and 13 other singers
in the Westside Baptist Church choir
usually arrived a little early
every Wednesday evening for their 7:30 practice,
but on one memorable night, Herb was running late.
(clock chimes)
I was at home at that time, writing a letter to our
denominational headquarters in Chicago.
I wanted to get that letter off and drop it in
on the way to choir practice, but I was running out of time.
Finally, I got it done.
So we hurried over as rapidly as we could,
and got there and the Westside was dark.
Completely dark, no lights anyplace.
And I wondered what had happened.
I had to park about a block away from the building, and...
realized that when I got there,
the steeple was lying about where my car was usually parked.
(dramatic music)
Three minutes before the time
for the choir to begin to practice.
Suddenly there was a terrific explosion.
It simply blew apart the entire church.
A gas leak explosion.
The sidewalls were blown out.
The roof and the floor system wound up in the basement,
and surely, nobody could live through something like that.
The fire chief immediately
enlisted Herb's help to provide a head count
of any survivors so they could determine
who had been trapped in the rubble.
I rounded them up, and nobody was missing.
Everybody was there that we were looking for.
Each one of those people was detained just enough
to miss that explosion.
Two little girls, senior high kids, usually
were very prompt, but this particular night,
one of the girls said she wanted to wait
until a program was over.
She wanted to see the finale of a program
that she was interested in, and before the finale came,
the explosion went up.
Another one was my cousin, Harvey.
His wife was out of the town that evening.
She'd taken the little girl along,
but he had two boys and the neighbors
had invited them over for dinner,
and as they sat around, the conversation was good,
the meal was good, and they talked too long.
So, they were late.
There were others who had a story very similar.
While we held hands in a circle, we formed a circle,
and gave thanks for the deliverance that we had had.
Because we realized that a miracle had taken place.
The time was set so accurately because the steeple,
when it fell, also cut the power lines exactly
three minutes before the beginning of the choir practice.
We know that because the clock stopped
at the radio station exactly at 27 minutes after 7 o'clock.
And there are some people who scoff at miracles
because they don't believe it.
"Can't be, it just happened."
But there were too many individual circumstances involved
in that church explosion for it to be just a happenstance.
(soft piano music)
Coincidences usually happen unexpectedly,
but some people attribute them
to their own conscious desire or prayer.
In the following story, a mother traces back
an amazing coincidence to a special request she had made.
(music)
My daughter and her husband, who have two little boys,
had told me that they were vaguely thinking of moving
because their house was a little too crowded
if ever they were to have a third child.
So I had just remembered that, and I thought,
"Oh, well, why don't I go and
"have a look in the neighborhood?"
She had driven around
her neighborhood for about an hour when a
white house with black shutters caught her eye.
She remembered seeing it several years earlier
when it had been up for sale, and knew that it would
be perfect for her daughter.
So I parked in front of it, and I prayed
to the Lord and I thought,
"Lord, I know that what I'm asking is a little silly
"because this house is not for sale.
"Obviously, people are very happy in that house.
"But do you think that, perhaps,
"you could put it on the market?"
Two days later, my daughter called me and she said to me,
"Mom, we have made an offer on a house."
And I said, "Yes, already?
"Did you find something really good?"
And she said, "Yes, I think we did,
"And it's not very far from you."
So I said to her, "It's not far from me? Where is it?"
She said, "Well, it's on the cul-de-sac."
And I said, "On the cul-de-sac?
"You mean, could it be a white house with black shutters?"
And she said yes.
So, I thought, "That must be the house."
It was the house, and I said,
"But, Christine, it's not for sale.
And she said, "It's going to be for sale in two days."
My college roommate lives a few doors from it,
and she told me that the neighbor told her
it was going to be for sale in two days.
So my children were able to buy the house
and now I love to sit on the lawn in front of the house
and look at my grandchildren play
with their new friends on that cul-de-sac.
People say that love seems to be
a motivating factor behind the
miracle stories they tell us about.
Love from a friend, love from a parent to a child,
or compassion for a stranger.
Some people might say, no, it's not a miracle.
It's just a coincidence, but I am convinced
that it is an answer to prayer.
I was not in a terrible need when I prayed.
I wasn't just begging God to meet a need of my children.
It's a prayer that came spontaneously to me
when I was in front of the house.
And that makes me think of the letter
of part of the Corinthian when he says
that we don't know always how to pray,
and that the holy spirit prays for us.
I think the holy spirit put that prayer in my mouth.
(soft flute music)
I remember a story of a woman who
was very nervous about walking down a bad street,
and she saw a loiterer up ahead.
And she thought, "This guy's bad news."
So she'd been reading a book about angels
and she said, "Oh angels, be with me now,"
which is a very nice way to ask all that's really necessary.
And she went on past this guy and he looked her up and down.
She could feel him sizing her up,
but he didn't do anything to her and she got to the corner
and broke into a run, and got to her home safely.
But the next day she had heard there had been a mugging
around that corner about 10 minutes after she passed
and it was another young woman.
So she put on her red coat, which she always wore
in the winter time and she went off to the police station
and told the police officer what had happened
and he said, "We have that man in custody."
It is the same man.
She looked at him in a lineup, and it was him.
And she told the officer that she was curious
as to why he let her pass, and the officer said
he was too and he would ask the criminal.
And the criminal said, "Oh, yeah, I remember her.
"The one in the red coat."
But he said, "I wouldn't have bothered her
"because she had those two big guys with her,
"one on either side."
So when you hear this story, you gasp and you think,
"Oh, what a wonderful story.
But I thought right away,
what happened to the mugging victim?
Where were her angels?
Now I firmly believe they were right with her.
If I have an angel, then you have an angel.
One of us is not singled out for attention
at the expense of the other.
The question always is, "Why did the angel stop to help
"the woman in the red coat,
"but didn't keep the victim from being mugged?"
It's the age-old question.
We really don't know.
Why do some people get healed and not others?
Why do some prayers get answered and it seems others don't?
And I don't have a quick answer except to say that
God is not fundamentally in the miracle business.
I will learn to receive what God has to offer,
and not try and put God under my control.
That's always a very difficult question to answer
and the only answer that I can give is that
we really can't understand the workings of the universe,
the workings of God, and it seems cruel,
sometimes, to think that certain events
might be part of the cosmic plan.
Sometimes, it may be that God allows difficult things
in our lives in order to bring good out of them later.
We are not alone in the world, and we,
I think we are part of a huge
tapestry of inter-relations,
and what to us has been terrible hurt
might be working for somebody else
for the best.
Why does a miracle only have to be a correction,
say, of what we don't like?
Nerves grow back, scars disappear,
fractured skull is no longer there.
Why does that have to be a miracle whereas if another child
still has his fractured skull, how do you know
that isn't going to lead to a miracle, you see?
Because when you stop judging,
you understand what one child said.
He said, "If God took my little friend age six of cancer,
"why did god make her in the first place?"
But then he went on to say, "But maybe her brother
"will become a doctor, see, and maybe that's the miracle.
"What if her brother discovers the cure
"because of his sister?"
I have to learn not to say, "God, heal my broken arm,"
and get all disappointed and my nose out of joint
if my arm doesn't get healed, but when I do see
God heal someone to get very excited
and rejoice for them and with them.
In Joan Wester Anderson's book,
Where Miracles Happen, we hear the story of a man
whose traveling music ministry
brought him a thousand miles from home.
He was at a crossroads in his life, not knowing
if he was really helping anyone and was looking for a sign.
(telephone rings)
We were traveling as a musical family,
going through Ohio with two big motor coaches,
with our family and some others and a music group
going to churches and conventions and so on.
And I was going through a real trying time in my life
because I was thinking, "Where am I in my life?
"What's going on in my own life?
"I'm telling other people they can have answers.
"Do I really have the answers myself?
"Has God really called me,
"or should I maybe quit and get a job?"
Even a person as spiritually well-developed
as Ken Gaub still reached a point in his life
where he said, "God, I don't know if
"what I'm doing is the right thing to do.
"Is this pleasing to you?
"I need to know, and I need to know soon.
"I'm burning out.
"Give me a sign."
These thoughts were going over and over in my mind.
So when everybody went to eat, I stayed in the coach
and sat there a while, and I got thirsty,
so I walked down the street to get a Pepsi,
and I walked back, just slowly, casually,
and I heard a phone ringing, and I listened,
"What is that?"
There was a phone booth near a gas station.
I remember it just rang, rang, rang and rang.
And I thought, "That's odd.
"I wonder why it's ringing like that.
"Maybe it's an emergency or something,
"for somebody close by."
So I went up and just went in the phone booth and
picked up the phone and said, "Hello?"
Operator said, person to person call
for Ken Gaub. (chuckles)
I laughed right out loud.
I said, "You're crazy.
"That's impossible."
And then I thought, I know what it is.
It's candid camera or a set up of some kind.
So I'm looking around, checking my hair and everything.
And I heard somebody saying,
"I believe that's him, I believe that's him."
And the operator said, "Well, is Ken Gaub there?"
And I said, "Yes, I'm Ken Gaub."
She said, "Are you sure?"
I said, "As far as I know, I'm Ken Gaub."
And then the moment I'm talking to this lady,
who in a desperate time had written a suicide note.
The woman, many, many miles away
who had once seen him on a TV show,
remembered how wonderful his ministry was,
and how he had said just the right things for her that day.
She was suicidal, and thought, "If I could just talk
"to that wonderful man one more time.
"But how would I ever find him?"
And she was given numbers.
She just saw a little collection of numbers in her mind.
She called and gave those numbers to the long distance
operator, who placed the call to the phone booth.
And I'm thinking, "How can this be?
"What are the odds that somebody calls somebody
"from another state, and it be the right phone number
"and the right guy walking by?"
There, I don't know if the odds are one a billion or what,
but what are the odds of this?
And I talked with her and was telling her that
suicide's not the answer.
Okay, bye bye.
Whew.
Ken stayed in contact with the woman
for several months, counseling her regularly until he knew
that her suicidal thoughts were behind her.
And that story kind of took a turn from
me helping this lady to actually God helping me.
Hey, Barbara.
God knows where we are.
A woman from Mexico, Teresa Juarez,
tells of an experience in which her doctor
had given up on her, and she was not expected to live.
(translated) They found a cancerous tumor in my brain.
And the doctor said that this tumor was completely developed
throughout my whole brain.
Those were his words, and he said,
"You won't live for even six months more."
So I felt very upset.
I prayed, and I cried, and one day,
I heard that the statue of the virgin of Fatima
was traveling to Juarez.
So I went to the church where the virgin was,
feeling very desperate.
I wanted to live, so when I went into the church
where the virgin was, I prayed to her,
and I said, "Holy mother, if you have all the power
"that your son has, heal me, or do your will with me."
When I did that, I felt like something was pulling my hair,
and I felt on the right side of my face,
I felt like something was buzzing,
and I also felt, well, I wanted to cry,
I wanted to scream.
I don't know, I felt like there was an intense heat
came into me, and they had to take me out of the church
because I cried and I cried,
and I kept on crying until I finally rested.
Following this mysterious episode,
Teresa returned to her doctor, fully convinced
that she had been healed.
(translated) So we went back to the doctor the next day,
and I said to him that I wanted him to do
another test on me because I felt sure
that there was nothing wrong with me anymore.
And he said no.
He said that they had given me 35 radiation treatments,
that my brain was still too inflamed.
and he said we're not gonna find anything out
from a test now because your brain is too inflamed.
But I insisted so much with him that he finally
sent me to do another test, and then when we went back
for the results, he said to my daughter,
"Do you know how to read in English?"
And my daughter said, "Yeah, I do."
And he said, "Okay, here's the envelope.
"Open it up so that you could see
"the results of your mother's test."
And before she opened it, he reminded us,
he said, "Your mother's cancer is incurable,
"and it's throughout her whole brain."
So my daughter opened up the envelope,
and when she looked at the test results,
she turned to the doctor and said,
"Look, this test says that there's not even
a trace of cancer left."
And the doctor grabbed the paper,
and he started reading it for himself.
And he said, "Well, I, the only explanation
"I can find for this, it just has to be a miracle
"because I know that you had an incurable cancer.
"There was no help for that."
And I said, "Well, maybe for science
"there's no answer to this, but for God, there is."
And to me, the most important thing
is that God has healed me, and I am healthy now.
And I give glory to God that he healed me
because of my faith, but you know it's because
I placed a lot of faith in God, and I have a lot of faith
that I'm healthy and that I'm not going to get sick agian.
In fact, I threw out all the pills, every one.
I'm not taking any now, and since about a year
and four months ago, I haven't taken a thing.
And I give glory to God because I'm fine now.
Deborah Deckelman was a woman
facing her own emotional darkness
when she was visited by a mysterious stranger.
Well, my experience happened about 11 years ago,
and I was going through a series of tragedies in my life
to where I had two close friends
who were killed in a car accident.
I had a miscarriage, lost my grandmother,
and I was dealing with some joint custody problems.
I was contemplating suicide, and it got to the point
where I decided that the fastest way to do it
was, would be to take the gun and shoot myself.
But, I called my husband, he came home.
We went into a hospital, and I was admitted there.
It was a depression clinic, and I was always laying
on the bed and sobbing and crying.
My hands were over my eyes.
I heard this beautiful voice say Deborah,
and she said, "Can I come around and talk with you?"
And I took my hands down, and I looked up at her,
and I said yes, and I was still crying.
And she came around.
She's a grandmotherly type woman,
and she says, "I know what you're thinking
"and you're feeling right now."
She says, "You're feeling like you're in this
"pit of darkness and there's no hope for you."
And that's what I was thinking.
She knew me inside and out, and she says,
"I'm here to tell you this is what God wants you to do.
"He wants you to take it just one day at a time,
"and scratch away at that darkness, just a little bit,
"just scratch away just a little bit
and you'll see this crack, and in the crack,
"every day you do this, you'll see it open and a little
"bit more light will come through, and everyday,
"more and more light will come through for you."
And she says, "Do you know what that is?"
She said, "That is God's love and promise
"for you that you must go on."
She put one hand on my forehead and one on my heart,
and as we prayed, it was like someone
brought the sun from the sky
and into that pit of darkness I had,
and it was all over me, and all through me,
and I was being embraced by God.
I was being comforted and loved in such a way
I had never felt before.
And I looked up, and it was just pure light.
My mind and my heart were healed.
The depression was gone, totally lifted.
She went out the door passed directly next to the nurse
who was coming in at the time, and I asked the nurse
who this wonderful radiant person was
that just made me feel so loved,
and the nurse said, "Who was who?"
No one but Deborah had seen a woman,
and according to the hospital, she was neither
an employee nor a volunteer.
I got up the next morning, and I got out of bed
and I went over to the window, and I opened the blinds,
and right there in front of me at the window
was this big beautiful rainbow
and the colors were so brilliant and beautiful.
It was my confirmation that God was telling me again
See?
My promises are good.
My experience lead to having forums, and it also
brought to me many special people.
Deborah felt compelled to share her story
with a small group.
So many people responded with their own
remarkable stories that Deborah
organized a forum.
On the town square in Handover, Pennsylvania,
in a converted store room above a gift shop
called The Rose Trellis, there's a special meeting going on.
Welcome to the second meeting of over.
Nearly 500 people gathered
from hundreds of miles around to share their own stories,
and to hear the experiences of others.
One of the persons to attend Deborah's forum
was a gentleman called Albert Gorsuch.
He was a self-professed workaholic
with a responsible job and a family
that depended on him, and then he began drinking.
I couldn't wait in the morning to start drinking,
and then I got into gambling,
and so on.
So then I, this went on for several years
with my wife and the next morning,
she could be out in the kitchen making breakfast,
and she would be out there singing,
and go on and said, "God, how can she do these things?"
How can it be that she can do these things
when she knew what I'd been doing?
I would try to hide part of it from her,
especially the gambling part.
And one day, my boss came up and he said, "Albert."
I had been bringing a man in two years for me
on my job, and he said, "I can't pay
"two of you on for this job, and I would like you to retire.
"You're old enough to retire."
Well, that's the day that the earth crashed around me.
The only solution Albert could see
to his dismal future was to remove himself from the picture.
I went out and got in my car and I started down a road,
and I was crying and I didn't want to commit suicide,
but God hadn't answered my prayers.
He hadn't helped me any, and I was crying.
I prayed all the way down the road.
I said, "God, can I, is there no help for me?"
But I never got an answer, and so then I stopped
on the bridge and got out of my car.
And then I started to walk to the rail.
This something, a force, just took hold me,
and lifted me up my feet and took me back to my car.
And I said, "Oh, God. Is this an angel?"
I don't know how we got over on Ivy Mill Road,
which is about a mile away, but it was off the road.
And whatever it was, had me in its arms,
and I, it was like a cloak,
and I was like a little baby in its arms.
To Albert, time stood still.
When he finally calmed down,
Albert claims that the comforting voice
would not leave him until it received assurance
that he would be alright.
When it finally was over with,
the voice said to me, "God isn't done with you yet, son.
"God isn't done with you yet."
Albert turned his life around completely,
and today tells his story whenever possible
of how his life was saved by an unexplainable presence.
(soft flute music)
(playful flute music)
A few minutes on the internet can turn up
chatlines and bulletin boards in which people
openly share their miraculous experiences.
Paul Robert Walker used this technology
to help him locate stories for his book,
Every Day's a Miracle.
Sometimes, though, just by reading through the postings,
I would come across an amazing story.
Like right here.
He writes, "I also had an experience with an angel.
"And I believe firmly that it is the only
"explanation to this story of mine.
"One night, I was coming home from work on the interstate.
"It was July 4th, and approximately 11:45 PM.
"I was getting ready to get on the exit ramp
"when my steering wheel sharply turned to the left,
"putting me in the fast lane of the interstate.
"Seconds later, a car came speeding
"the wrong way down the exit ramp I was about to enter.
"If I had exited on that ramp, my passenger and I
"would surely have been killed in a head-on accident.
"There was no sign of that car when I was about to exit,
"but surely my angel must've seen what was about to happen.
"This occurred in 1981, and I still remember
"to thank my angel for saving my life."
It's an amazing story, I think,
and it's right there online.
And we go down the list.
Now here's a posting entitled Quantum Physics,
which is interesting to me because it sounds like
it echos some of the same ideas I'd been thinking about
in terms of the application of the new breakthroughs
in physics to the possibility of miracles.
"The old Newtonian physics did away with God
"in its mechanistic outlook of the universe.
"Quantum Physics has returned God to us.
"Mystics through the ages have always known
"that there was a higher power that was an intrinsic
"part of everything that exists within ourselves,
"the world, and the entire universe.
"They knew that God or the Light existed within.
"Quantum physicists are now agreeing
"with this very same outlook.
"They are now saying that all matter is energy,
"and that on the sub-atomic level,
"this same energy exists in everything.
"They do not understand it and cannot describe it,
"only that it exists, but they recognize that
"it is this energy that is the cause of all existence.
"Sounds like God to me."
It's nice, I think, It's nice.
Supreme court Justice Antonin Scalia
in a speech about religion in the
age of scientific skepticism concluded
with an ardent defense with the existence of miracles.
A 1996 poll taken for TIME Magazine and CNN
discovered that 82% of Americans believe
in the healing power of personal prayer.
64% believed that doctors should join their patients
in prayer if the patients request it.
Clearly, there are a lot of people out there
who do believe in miracles.
The public seems hungry for these stories,
and readers can hardly get enough of them.
Are people more interested now than they were
at other times in history with the issue of spirituality?
There's clearly renewed interest today
in the spiritual world, angels and
miracles and the afterlife, and I think to a great extent,
it's simply a reaction to the material explosion
of the 20th century, and that we've come to the realization
that we can have all the material things
that we could imagine, but there's still a deeper
kind of happiness that lies in a spiritual understanding.
But I also think it has a lot to do with the millennium.
There is a unifying hope, I think,
that the millennium will mark a new level
of consciousness for the human race.
Perhaps a better point of view,
a better understanding, a better way of living.
And I think that expectation
leads to renewed spiritual activity.
Do you think you've ever experienced a miracle?
We asked people if they believed in miracles.
Yes, I believe in miracles.
Well, yes from the standpoint of
I believe there's divine intelligence
that directs the universe.
No from the standpoint of if you're asking me
if God creates miracles.
I don't know that I necessarily
do or don't believe in miracles.
I don't know that I've ever experienced one.
I do believe in miracles.
I think they happen everyday, and people just
don't realize it or won't accept it.
I don't think it's some spirit that's guiding us.
I think it's right here in our own heads
that's letting us do that, and that's the miracle.
The miracle is your own brain.
Next, we asked if anyone
had ever experienced a miracle.
Actually, a miracle I believe happened to
my family about six or seven weeks ago.
My little boy fell out of our second story window
onto our concrete, and basically walked away uninjured.
And I just feel like something or someone
helped him in his fall, and it led me to
believe that there are miracles.
You do hear about them, I read about them in the paper.
I had several experiences, and it happened to have taken
place in a car in a life-threatening situation.
And the first one is about 15 years ago,
and I was driving home from my parents' house,
and I was driving on a two-lane road
through the artichoke fields.
So it took a shortcut, and it had very steep embankments
down at the fields on either side
and I guess I'd fallen asleep.
And someone grabbed me by the right shoulder, shook me,
and a voice, neither male or female, really,
but really urgently said, "Janni, wake up."
And I felt the breath on my cheek,
and I opened my eyes, and I was completely alone in the car,
and I pulled the steering wheel back,
and I just barely, barely got back from the edge
of the embankment there.
I was about to cross the street, and when I
I reached the curb, something told me to stop.
A split second later, a bus drove in front of me
very fast about two inches in front of my face.
We were building this new antenna,
and we needed a place to put a guywire
to support that pole, and we realized we
were very close to these high suspension lines
and we had to be careful where we put it.
The wire rope hit the high tension line, that outer line,
and it knocked me to the ground.
They didn't want to discharge me.
They kept me in that day and that night,
the next day, and they did a treadmill and a cardiogram
and all kinds of tests on me and they just shook their
head and you know, they keep saying,
"How many volts was that?"
And I said, "Well, the lineman said it was
"13,800 volts from face to ground."
And they just shook their head and said,
"You're a very lucky man."
The only way they knew how to say I was blessed,
but they discharged me the next day and I was fine.
()soft piano music)
Among the growing collection
of miracle researchers is Jodie Berndt.
Her book, Celebration of Miracles,
written for Thomas Nelson Bible Publishers,
was inspired by a personal experience.
I became interested in the subject of miracles
several years ago when my sister,
who was in high school at the time,
was diagnosed with colon cancer, which was a real rare
form of cancer for someone as young as she was,
and which we later learned was had a real low cure rate.
They had done some studies that had shown that
no one as a teenager or childhood
come down with colon cancer survived.
So we knew that this was a serious thing,
and Jennifer, I think, fully believed
that God would heal her.
That's what she wanted to believe, and she prayed,
and as it turned out, she did have a tumor.
It was the size of a grapefruit, and when the doctors
went in to remove it, they were amazed because
as one of the surgeons put it, "The nature of cancer
"is to grow, and yet it had contained itself."
They'd never heard of a cancer doing that.
And so once they removed the tumor,
they had envisioned that she would need
radiation, chemotherapy.
They told her not to plan to go to college
because she'd be having these treatments
and they sent her off to a specialist
at Georgetown University Medical Center
who ran additional tests on her and found
that she was completely clean,
and the doctors have called her a miracle.
I just got more and more interested,
and as I did so, I began to meet other people
and talk to other people who'd seen God work in their lives.
I love how one of the fellas I talk to
in preparation for my book responded to this.
There was a pastor.
His name was Duane Miller, and really,
his story was one of the most remarkable
that I had heard, and I say heard
because I really did get to hear it.
He sent me an audiotape, and he was a pastor in Texas
who after a bout with the flu, lost the use of his voice.
I was left with a pressure in my throat,
and pressure's the only way I know to describe
the feeling, and it was as if someone had my windpipe
between their thumb and forefinger and was squeezing it.
I sounded like this, and it felt like that.
And it felt that way for the next three years of my life.
I went through a myriad of tests with doctors.
They did everything they could,
trying to determine what was wrong.
Ultimately referred me to doctors around the country.
I've seen doctors from Europe.
I've seen doctors from Japan.
I've seen doctors from Los Angeles,
Philadelphia, New York, Houston.
I've seen doctors from most everywhere,
and they all arrived, ultimately, at the conclusion
that when I had that flu virus, it got into
the nerves of my vocal cords.
It was able to penetrates the myelin sheath,
which is like an insulation around the nerves,
and it ultimately destroyed the nerves
in my throat, in my vocal box, vocal chords
so that they did not function.
They just hung limply.
They gave me a prognosis, ultimately,
that said that I would not recover,
and that the speech that I was able to generate,
I was generating with some fatty tissues
that were called false chords
that are in your throat, but they're not
designed to sustain speech, and they told me that
ultimately, I would wear away the false chords surfaces
to the point that they could no longer get together
and I would be totally mute.
They predicted that should all occur by late '94
or early '95, I should be totally mute.
That was their word.
All of that is observable on video tape.
The doctors ran like timelapse photography.
Every time I would go see them, they would
put the scope down my throat and record all of that.
So you could watch scar tissue actually form in my throat.
My wife became the breadwinner of our family
because we had to resign the pastorate where we were.
I could no longer preach.
I couldn't sustain that.
I couldn't go to a sales job because I couldn't make
whole calls because I sounded like an obscene
phone caller, and the people would hang up on me.
You know, you laugh about that now and it's amusing,
but at the time, it's extremely frustrating.
Emotionally, I was destroyed.
Career-wise, I was set aside.
In many of the things that I thought
were important in my life, I found myself at loose ends,
and like other people, I asked God, "Why, why?"
He was not expecting for God to heal him
at any given moment, and one day,
he was teaching a Sunday school class,
filling in for someone using a special microphone
so that his listeners could catch his words.
And he's rasping into the microphone,
and as he's teaching about God out of Psalm 103
how God forgives our sins and heals our diseases
and redeems our life from the pit, something broke.
In a church of 24,000 members,
that's the only class that taped Sunday school lessons.
So it was caught on tape.
On the other hand, to say that since we don't have
anything after the Book of Acts that miracles
in the Book of Acts never happen again is equally as wrong.
Because you have put God in a box both ways.
He doesn't want to be in the box.
So to Psalm, he says, I'm excited.
Bless the Lord, Oh my soul.
One of his best is he heals all of my diseases.
And then in verse four he says,
and he redeems my life from the pit.
And I like that verse just a whole lot.
I have had and you have had in times
past pit experiences.
We've both had, we've all had times when
our life seemed to be in a pit, in a grave,
and we he didn't have an answer for ... (deeply inhales)
the pit we find ourselves in, (deeply inhales)
And I don't understand this right now.
(crowd laughs and applauds)
I'm a bit overwhelmed at the moment.
(hoarse breathing)
I'm not quite sure what to say or do.
(crowd cries and cheers in background)
(deeply inhales)
I'm (chuckles) sounds funny to say,
a loss for words.
(crowd laughs and cheers)
And I have to tell you, I still am at a loss for words.
The people in that Sunday school class
began to weep and clap and some were silent.
Some were laughing.
There was just an explosion of joy.
That moment was wonderful,
and I thank God for what occurred,
but the miracle doesn't end there.
You see, I've been back to the doctor's,
and when I went back and they showed me the last piece
of videotape that they shot of my throat,
it shows that the scar tissue that had formed
there is gone, and it's as slick smooth in the bottom
of my throat as the day it all began.
Scar tissue doesn't disappear.
So even if you could coincidentally explain
how I'm able to speak, what happened to the scar tissue?
That's the miracle.
These stories have provoked questions
in the minds of those who have experienced them.
Were these miracles?
And if so, what do they say about life
and the existence of a creator?
These questions stare back at them, across the canyon
which divides faith from rational explanation,
and they have been left trying to find a bridge.
I do know that our life moves in the direction
of our most dominant thoughts.
I think miracles.
I think and believe for answers,
and there have been times in my own life
when I've been basically bankrupt and know which way to go,
and miracles happen, just right out of the blue,
and so I get excited about that because
I know that God cares for us.
Love is where God is, and if God is right here,
then love should be right here too.
And it's all connected in a way.
I think he shows us that as he
performs these marvelous miracles,
these little signs and wonders for us.
The whole point of it is, I'm here and I love you.
Faith, hope, and love.
Wonderful chemistry.
Hope is an attitude, you see?
Fear is an attitude.
So the people who have no hope,
lots of fear, no faith, and no love.
What are they foreseeing?
They live out what they foresee,
which is death and suffering.
And that's why there are physicians
who can enhance death, you see,
if every time you come to an office,
your hope is taken away,
love is poo-pooed, and there's nothing
to have faith in except the doctor.
You're going to die right on schedule,
and the doctor says, "See, I told you.
"What are you talking about, miracles?"
Then you walk into another office,
and the doctor says, "I love you.
"What would you like to do?
"Let me tell you what other people have done
"who have exceeded our expectations."
I think the more love you can put out,
the more love you're going to receive.
This goes back to the idea of the response of universe.
Certainly, if you put out love into the universe
and if you can put out unconditional love,
you're going to receive unconditional love.
I feel sometimes that all that is between
our wishes and God to accomplish what he wants for us,
what he has planned for us is our prayer.
That's all that is missing and he wants us to pray.
It's a free thing that God gives us.
Free blessings everyday, free miracles.
You don't have to earn this.
There's nothing you can do to earn his love.
We know that he loves us,
and that he does want the very best for us.
The public way in which this occurred in my life
was for the purpose of saying to all those around me
I care about you as much as I care about Duane.
I'm just as concerned about your prayers.
They mean something.
So I tell folks today when you pray for somebody,
don't stop praying because you don't know
when that moment might be that the change will occur.
Don't give up.
Dont' quit.
It's not over.
(uplifting flute music)